<p2 University of Nebraska--Omaha p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1908. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 12,488, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 683 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of Nebraska--Omaha's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its in-state tuition and fees are $7,204 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $19,124.

<p2 UNO p2>, with over 15,000 students, the University of Nebraska at Omaha (UNO) is a premier metropolitan university that combines the resources of a nationally recognized Carnegie Doctoral Research University with a close-knit community. With global reach and vision, UNO is large enough to provide the opportunities students seek, yet with student to faculty ratios of 17:1 (undergraduate) and 13:1 (graduate), personal enough to provide the mentorship they need to achieve academic excellence, creativity, and engaged learning at competitive tuition rates. An academic emphasis is placed on the following priority areas: STEM, Early Childhood, Sustainability, Global Engagement, and Doctoral/Research. UNO's six colleges are dedicated to providing rigorous undergraduate and graduate academic programs, taught by faculty who are national or international experts in their fields. Colleges include: Arts and Sciences; Business Administration; Communication, Fine Arts, and Media; Education; Information Science & Technology; and Public Affairs and Community Service.Offering the lowest tuition and fees of 10 Eastern Nebraska four-year institutions, the most competitive tuition rates in the region can be found at UNO. Approximately 60% of recent undergraduate alumni surveyed graduated with no debt or less than $5,000 less in debt.UNO has added 1.8 million square feet of new or renovated facilities space since 2006. New facilities on campus include Baxter Arena, and two nationally unique spaces: the Biomechanics Research Building and the Barbara Weitz Community Engagement Center.As the most diverse university in the region all learners are welcomed. UNO students have the opportunity to get involved on campus in over 120 student groups and organizations. UNO student athletes compete in 15 men's and women's Division I sports. Student research opportunities are cultivated through the Office of Research and Creative Activity, with over 200 undergraduate and graduate students presenting at the 2016 research fair.UNO is committed to and engaged with the city of Omaha, allowing students unique hands-on learning opportunities, internships, service learning, applied research and other collaborative activities that enhance time in the classroom. The city truly functions as part of the UNO campus. With a population of 1.2 million within a 50-mile radius, Omaha is integral to what UNO is as a university and offers unlimited opportunities for collaboration. Relationships with business, education, government, arts, and civic organizations run deep leading students to service-learning opportunities, internships, practica, and careers. UNO has been nationally recognized for military friendliness, being awarded the #1 4-Year Best for Vets University by Military Times Magazine two years in a row (2014-2015 and 2015-2016). Military Times also listed the UNO College of Business Administration as the #1 Best for Vets 4-Year Business School the same two years.In 2014, UNO received the Presidential Award for the Economic Opportunity category of the President's Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll. As the only Nebraska institution with seven straight inclusions on the President's Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll, the university is committed to maintaining and expanding meaningful, sustainable, mutually beneficial partnerships that improve the broader community and the university.UNO is recognized by U.S. News and World report as having one of the top 20 online bachelor's programs and nationally ranked graduate programs; the first Nebraska school in the <n Clinton n> Global Initiative University global research network; and receives millions of research dollars from national funding agencies including National Institutes of Health, U.S. Department of Defense, National Science Foundation, and <n NASA n>.
