<p1 University of San Diego p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1949. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 5,647, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 180 acres. It utilizes a 4-1-4-based academic calendar. University of San Diego's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 86. Its tuition and fees are $46,140 (2016-17).

The <p1 University of San Diego p1> is a Roman Catholic institution open to students of all faiths. The school overlooks Mission Bay, and downtown San Diego is about a 15-minute trip away. On campus, there are more than 100 student organizations, including more than 10 fraternities and sororities. Most of the San Diego Torero sports teams are members of the NCAA Division I West Coast Conference; the football team competes in the NCAA Division I-AA Pioneer League. Athletic teams are cheered on by the school's mascot, a costumed bullfighter named Diego Torero. The University Ministry coordinates retreats and immersion trips and hosts daily Mass services, including a special Mass for Peace on Wednesday nights.

After class, students can relax at nearby beaches, like <n La n> Jolla and Pacific Beach, or explore Balboa Park, the biggest urban cultural park in the country, which is home to 15 museums, the San Diego Zoo and the Old Globe Theatre. Opportunities to kayak, sail, wind surf and more are nearby. Students can join group excursions, led by the school’s Outdoor Adventures program, or rent kayaks, surfboards and snorkel equipment on campus for trips on their own. Freshmen must live on campus, and for students around on the weekends, the school hosts a Friday Night Movies series.

The University of San Diego has a variety of graduate programs, including a <n Tier n> 1 School of Law and an accredited paralegal program. Some enrichment programs are specific to the school's religious foundation, like the Center for Christian Spirituality and the Oscar Romero Center for Faith in Action. Notable alumni include Lowell McAdam, chairman and CEO of Verizon Communications; Theo Epstein, president of baseball operations for the Chicago Cubs; and Andrew Firestone, a former contestant on  ABC’s "The Bachelor."