<p1 University of Pittsburgh p1> is a public institution that was founded in 1787. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 18,908, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 145 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of Pittsburgh's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 68. Its in-state tuition and fees are $18,618 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $29,758 (2016-17).

Located in the Oakland neighborhood, Pitt’s campus is a <n 3-mile n> trip from bustling downtown Pittsburgh. The city is home to powerhouse professional sports teams, such as the Steelers and Penguins, and dozens of unique cultural centers, like the Andy Warhol Museum and Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens. Pitt students get free admission to these and other select museums throughout the school year. Because Pittsburgh is bordered by three rivers, kayaking, sailing and fishing opportunities are plentiful. City buses stop every 10 to 15 minutes on campus, and students can ride public transportation into the city for free with school ID. Freshmen do not have to live on campus. Pitt has a sizeable Greek community of about 35 fraternities and sororities. Students in Arts and Sciences majors can earn hands-on credits in internships, research and teaching with the help of the university’s Office of Undergraduate Research, Scholarship and Creative Activity. The Pittsburgh Panthers sports teams compete in the NCAA Division I Atlantic Coast Conference. Pitt students are notorious for their avid support at sporting events, particularly for forming a riotous cheering section known as the Oakland <n Zoo n> at basketball games. Students who attend the most home sporting events get priority purchasing when game tickets are in high demand through the school’s Loyalty Points system.

The university earns national accolades for its highly ranked School of Medicine, School of Education and Swanson School of Engineering. The School of Medicine is particularly well regarded for its research, working in conjunction with the highly ranked <p1 University of Pittsburgh p1> Medical Center, and the institution receives one of the highest amounts of funding from the National Institutes of Health. The university is well known for its focus on going green, too. Students and faculty work toward environmentally friendly neighborhood solutions at the school’s Mascaro Center for Sustainable Innovation. There are notable University of Pittsburgh alumni in almost every professional sector; some are famed football personalities Mike Ditka and Dan Marino; former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon; and Roscoe Robinson Jr., the first African-American four-star general in the U.S. Army.