<p2 University of Maryland--College Park p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1856. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 27,443, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 1,335 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of Maryland--College Park's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 60. Its in-state tuition and fees are $10,181 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $32,045 (2016-17).

Located between Washington, D.C., and Baltimore, the University of Maryland offers students a suburban lifestyle within easy reach of big-city experiences. The flagship campus in College Park, which has its own subway stop on the <n D.C.-area n> Metro transit system, is often considered a commuter school. Accordingly, freshmen do not have to live on campus. There are more than 800 clubs and organizations on campus, including about 35 fraternities and sororities that involve approximately 15 percent of the student population. Students looking for additional activities can visit the university's "Free Stuff @ Maryland" website, which offers a comprehensive listing of presentations, events and movie screenings with no admission charges. Sports also offer yearlong distractions. The Maryland Terrapins compete in the NCAA Division I Big Ten Conference. The mascot, Testudo, is a Diamondback terrapin — a species of turtle that is the official state reptile. One of several Testudo sculptures on campus sits in front of McKeldin Library, and rubbing its <n nose n> is thought to bring good luck, particularly before exams.

The <p2 University of Maryland p2>  has a highly ranked graduate program in education and the noted A. James Clark School of Engineering, as well as well-regarded offerings through the Robert H. Smith School of Business. The university regularly earns accolades for its sustainable and clean energy initiatives, such as  its plan to be carbon neutral by 2050 and campus-wide efforts to compost dining hall waste. Famous Maryland alumni span the professional spectrum and include NASA scientist Charles Bennett, broadcast journalist Connie Chung and "Sesame Street" and "The Muppet Show" creator Jim Henson.