<p2 University of Texas--Arlington p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1895. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 30,633, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 420 acres. It utilizes a 4-1-4-based academic calendar. University of Texas--Arlington's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its in-state tuition and fees are $9,616 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $23,460.

The <p2 UOTA p2> is the second largest institution in the University of Texas System and a growing research powerhouse committed to life-enhancing discovery, exceptional instruction and robust community engagement. An educational leader in the heart of the fourth largest metropolitan area in the nation (Dallas-<n Arlington n>-Ft. Worth), UTA nurtures minds within an environment that values innovation, diversity, excellence, access and student success. Guided by world-class faculty members, the University's more than 54,000 students pursue 186 bachelor s, master's and doctoral degrees in a broad range of disciplines. UTA is dedicated to producing the lifelong learners and critical thinkers our nation demands. University researchers are working to solve the world's urgent challenges such as enhancing the human condition, enabling a sustainable megacity and ensuring environmental stability through production of cleaner energy, air and water. The Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education classifies UTA as an R-1: Highest Research Activity doctoral granting institution, among 115 such elite universities in the U.S.By encouraging a climate of innovation, UTA is making major breakthroughs that drive the economy and offer hope for future generations. The University is home to 13 of the 47 National Academy of Inventors fellows currently teaching and researching at Texas universities, faculty members who are making discoveries that improve the quality of life for all. Some 100 UTA researchers have patented devices, processes or technologies. The high-energy physics group played a key role in discovering the elusive Higgs boson that physicists believe gives particles in the universe their mass. UTA's College of Nursing and Health Innovation is the largest in Texas and the top producer of baccalaureate degreed nurses in the the state. It is one of only two in Texas and 12 in the nation to be <n designated n> a National League for Nursing Center of Excellence in 2015. State-of-the-art facilities include the UTA Research Institute which bridges the gap between academic research and product development in product engineering, biomedical technologies and robotics. The Shimadzu Institute for Research Technologies encompasses more than 47,000 square feet of space and instrumentation spread over six centers. Other research centers of excellence focus on improving the nation's infrastructure, combating chronic illnesses and developing renewable energy sources.Student success is a primary <n focus n> at UTA. The University awarded 10,586 graduate and undergraduate degrees in the 2015-16 academic year, expanding the pool of well-educated employees for knowledge-based industries in North Texas and beyond. About 5,000 students live on campus, and another 5,500 live in privately-owned housing within a five-mile radius of campus, driving demand for new businesses and services. U.S. News & World Report ranks UTA fifth in the nation for undergraduate diversity, with Hispanics (28 percent), African-Americans (16 percent) and Asians (12 percent) representing the largest undergraduate minority groups. The University is a Hispanic-Serving Institution and is ranked as the top four-year college in Texas for veterans on Military Times 2016 Best for Vets list. UTA was named among the top 200 schools for Native Americans by Winds of Change magazine. Students from every U.S. state and more than 100 countries make UTA their collegiate home, creating a global learning environment.UTA has emerged as a national leader in online education, leading all four-year Texas universities in the production of online student credit hours. About 38 percent of the total student population is enrolled exclusively in online courses, and about 54 percent of all students take at least one online course. They choose from nearly 850 <n Webbased n> offerings, from core courses to degree and certificate programs.For more information, visit www.uta.edu.
