<p2 University of Oregon p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1876. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 20,538, its setting is city, and the campus size is 295 acres. It utilizes a quarter-based academic calendar. University of Oregon's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 103. Its in-state tuition and fees are $10,762 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $33,442 (2016-17).

The University of Oregon, or <p2 UO p2> for <n short n> , is located in Eugene, a town that bills itself on its strengths in the arts and outdoor activities. Students interested in the arts have a similarly vast array of events to choose from at UO and the surrounding community, from the Oregon Bach Festival to the Cinema Pacific Film Festival. The UO Ducks sports teams compete in the NCAA Division I Pac-12 Conference and draw a considerable amount of fans, especially in track and field and football. The school has a small but thriving Greek life with around 30 fraternities and sororities on campus. On-campus housing is not guaranteed, with spots filled on a first-come, first-served basis. Only about 20 percent of students live on campus, and the majority of these are underclassmen.

There is a dual enrollment option for students who want to take courses at both UO and a local community college. While at UO, students can give their résumés a boost through the Professional Distinctions Program, which incorporates extra academic concentrations, internships and career workshops. For graduate students, the University of Oregon has a highly ranked College of Education, as well as a law school, business school and other graduate degree programs. UO is also home to more than 30 research centers and institutes, from the Center for the Study of Women in Society to the Northwest Indian Language Institute. Notable alumni of the University of Oregon include Bill Bowerman, cofounder of Nike, Inc., and Ken Kesey, author of "One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest."