<p2 University of Washington p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1861. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 31,063, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 703 acres. It utilizes a quarter-based academic calendar. University of Washington's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 54. Its in-state tuition and fees are $10,753 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $34,791 (2016-17).

Located in the University District neighborhood (known as the U District) just north of downtown Seattle, the University of Washington is a cutting-edge research university with a long-standing history as one of the oldest public institutions on the West Coast. Students can join one of the school’s 500-plus student organizations, including about 50 sororities and fraternities, or can start a brand new club with at least four other students. <p2 UW p2> is known as a commuter school, and freshmen are not required to live on campus. Housing is not guaranteed for any student. For those that do reside in the residence halls, the university stresses “living green” through energy conservation and recycling. On the sports fields, the school’s varsity athletes are competitive in the NCAA Division I <n Pac-12 n> Conference. The football team, in particular, is a traditional league stand-out. The teams are represented by two mascots: one, a costumed student known as Harry the Husky Dawg, and the other, Dubs, a live Alaskan husky. The university gym is free for students seeking a workout.

The University of Washington receives a hefty amount of federal funding each year to further its mission as a public research institution. True to its roots in research, the school hosts an Undergraduate Research Symposium every year for students to present their work to the community. The school has a highly ranked School of Medicine, College of Engineering and Michael G. Foster School of Business. Nearly three fourths of University of Washington graduates remain in the state. Notable alumni include Thomas Foley, former U.S. Speaker of the House; Chris DeWolfe, <n co-creator n> of MySpace; and Irv Robbins, co-founder and namesake of the Baskin-Robbins ice cream chain.