<p1 University of Miami p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1925. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 11,122, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 239 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of Miami's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 44. Its tuition and fees are $47,004 (2016-17).

Located in Southern Florida, the University of Miami has an ideal location for students who love the outdoors. With popular spots like South Beach, the Florida Keys and Everglades National Park nearby, students have plenty of opportunities for water sports, hiking and sunbathing. Downtown Miami, also near to the school, is a thriving sports and cultural center. On campus, more than 2,400 students are involved in more than 30 fraternities and sororities. Students can also choose from more than 250 clubs and organizations to join. Freshmen are not required to live on campus, but many opt to live in the school’s five residential colleges. The communities, modeled after housing at England’s Oxford and Cambridge universities, combine living and learning with group meals, poetry readings, sports and more. <n For n> students who do not live in university housing, the Commuter Assistant Program pairs freshmen with an on-campus representative to help ease the transition into college.  University of Miami Division I sports teams are known as the Hurricanes and compete in the Coastal Division of the Atlantic <n Coast n> Conference. The school’s mascot is Sebastian the Ibis, a species of marsh bird that is known for weathering tropical storms.

The <p1 University of Miami p1> is known as a research institution, and research opportunities begin at the undergraduate level. Annual campus events include the Canes Film Festival, which showcases student-produced movies, and Sportsfest, three days of competition between residence hall teams. Undergraduates are also known for upholding school spirit with traditions like the Boat Burning Ceremony held on Lake Osceola during homecoming. Notable alumni of the University of Miami include actor Sylvester Stallone and entertainer Gloria Estefan.