<p2 University of Minnesota--Twin Cities p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1851. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 34,071, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 1,204 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of Minnesota--Twin Cities's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 71. Its in-state tuition and fees are $13,790 (2015-16); out-of-state tuition and fees are $22,210 (2015-16).

The <p2 University of Minnesota p2> stretches across a major city – or two, to be exact. Minneapolis and St. Paul, known as the Twin Cities, are frequently recognized for sports, cleanliness and volunteerism. The school has a campus in each city, though the Minneapolis site is considered the main campus of the University of Minnesota. <n Freshmen n> do not have to live on campus, but the more than 80 percent who choose to can opt to live in traditional residence halls or one of more <n than n> two dozen Living Learning communities, such as the Healthy Foods, Healthy Lives House and La Casa De Español. Also on campus are more than 600 student organizations, including more than 30 fraternities and sororities. The Minnesota Golden Gophers compete in the NCAA Division I Big Ten Conference, and all athletic events are held in the Minneapolis campus's Stadium Village neighborhood. Goldy Gopher, the school mascot, energizes thousands of student fans as they chant "Ski-U-Mah," a rally cry that means "Victory UM." Under the Four-Year Graduation Plan, the university ensures that all necessary classes will be available for students to complete their degrees on time. If courses are not available in an undergraduate's four years of schooling, the university will pay for the extra credits.

The university’s Carlson School of Management, College of Education and Human Development and law school are each ranked highly. The public research university begins to engage students at the undergraduate level. Some university applicants will even be guaranteed the opportunity to research when they receive their acceptance letters, and undergraduate researchers are paid for their work. For an off-campus experience, Gophers can study at one of about 200 other schools in U.S. and Canada through the National Student Exchange program, or can venture abroad with the help of the university’s large global study program. Notable alumni of the University of Minnesota include former U.S. Vice Presidents Hubert Humphrey and Walter Mondale, pianist Yanni and journalist Rick Sanchez.