<p2 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1872. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 25,384, its setting is rural, and the campus size is 2,600 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Virginia Tech's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 74. Its in-state tuition and fees are $12,852 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $29,371 (2016-17).

At <p2 Virginia Tech p2>, a former military institute with its background in the sciences, students are encouraged to “invent the future.” Students are known as Hokies, a term that was the original rally cry when the school was known as the Virginia Agricultural and Mechanical College and Polytechnic Institute. Sports teams, also known as the Hokies, compete in the NCAA Division I Atlantic Coast Conference, and the school mascot is the HokieBird. Virginia Tech is settled in Blacksburg, a typical college town full of restaurants, bars and clubs. Students account for more than half the total residents in Blacksburg, and they dominate the town's public Blacksburg Transit <n bus n> system, which is free for Hokies. On campus, students can go bowling, play <n pool n> or try out video games in the BreakZONE. There are also more than 600 clubs and organizations, including a large Greek system of more than 50 fraternities and sororities. Freshmen must live on campus, which puts them in close proximity to the school’s renowned dining facilities. Students can order steak and lobster at Virginia Tech’s West End Market, or grab a meal from on-campus chain restaurants, including Au Bon Pain and Pizza Hut.

With the school’s long history as a technical institution, graduate offerings include programs in the highly ranked College of Engineering. The school is also a research powerhouse, with seven research institutes and two university research centers – including the Institute for Critical Technology and Applied Science and the Virginia Bioinformatics Institute – that offer research opportunities to undergraduate and graduate students alike. All students can also take advantage of the Math Emporium, an off-campus lab that houses more than 500 Mac computers, tutoring sessions and classes. Notable Hokie alumni include football player Michael Vick and talk show host Hoda Kotb.