For more than 40 years, <p1 Walden University p1> has supported working professionals in achieving their academic goals and making a greater impact in their professions and their communities. Today, more than 51,016 students from all 50 states and more than 114 countries are pursuing their bachelor's, master's or doctoral degrees online at <p1 WU p1>. The university provides students with an engaging online educational experience that connects them with expert faculty and peers around the world. Walden offers 140 degree programs with more than 300 specializations and concentrations. Areas of study include health sciences, counseling, human services, management, psychology, education, public health, nursing, public administration and information technology. For more information, visit www.WaldenU.edu. Walden University is accredited by The Higher Learning Commission and a member of the North Central Association, www.ncahlc.org. Walden focuses on the professional needs of adult learners by offering programs that explore real-world issues, with courses designed by subject matter experts. Students gain the critical-thinking, leadership, and communication skills they need to compete in the global marketplace and to influence the workforce. At Walden, technology helps to enhance students' learning and to provide greater access to education. Online classrooms allow students to engage with peers from any location, and 24-hour student support is available. Faculty members receive specialized training to help create a collaborative environment and give each student personalized attention. Walden also uses technology to better address the needs of its students. Services include a fully digital library and a career center with practical online tools. Walden is guided by the belief that its learning community can effect social change across communities, <n countries n>, and continents. The university's <n mission n> of creating a positive impact in the lives of others fuels the passion of Walden faculty, graduates, and students and advances the outstanding work they do. see less 


