<p1 Worcester Polytechnic Institute p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1865. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,299, its setting is city, and the campus size is 80 acres. It utilizes a quarter-based academic calendar. Worcester Polytechnic Institute's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 60. Its tuition and fees are $46,994 (2016-17).

Among the 10 colleges located in Worcester, Mass., Worcester Polytechnic Institute stands out as a close-knit private school grounded in scientific education. The student body is actively engaged in campus activities, such as the rivalry contests like the gigantic "tug-of-war" held throughout the year that pit the freshmen class against the sophomores. More than 30 percent of students are <n members n> of the school's 15 or so fraternities and sororities. Even more – close to 70 percent – are involved in campus sports at some level. The WPI Engineers compete in the NCAA Division III New England Men's and Women's Athletic Conference, supported by mascot Gompei, a goat. Though the original school mascot was the head of a once-live goat, the school now uses a man-made replica for a mascot. WPI students also come out in droves for the school's club sports and intramural program, and all students must take four physical education courses, ranging from lifeguarding to plyometrics.

Freshmen do not have to live in campus residence facilities, which include standard dormitories and four houses with student-selected themes. A university seal is imprinted on the <n ground n> in the center of campus, but make sure not to step on it; school lore warns that any student who does won't graduate on time. Off campus, students can use Woo Cards to get discounts on food and activities around Worcester. Boston is 45 miles away, or about an hour's trip by train.

At <p1 WPI p1>, "M*A*S*H" is not just a decades-old hit television show; it is also the student-led tutoring program more formally known as Math And Science Help. The student population is decidedly male dominated, with men accounting for more than 70 percent of undergraduates. Notable WPI alumni include Robert Goddard, inventor of the liquid-fueled rocket, and Nancy Pimental, a writer for "South Park" and cohost of "Win Ben Stein’s Money."