<p2 University of California--Riverside p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1954. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of <n 18,608 n>, its setting is city, and the campus size is 1,200 acres. It utilizes a quarter-based academic calendar. University of California--Riverside's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 118. Its in-state tuition and fees are $13,581 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $40,263 (2016-17).

Despite its setting in Southern California, <p2 UCR p2> has a distinctly Scottish feel. All residence halls at the University of California—Riverside are named for landmarks in Scotland, including Aberdeen-Inverness and Pentland Hills. Student athletes compete as UCR Highlanders in the NCAA Division I Big West Conference. The <n school's n> original mascot was a live Scottish terrier; today, sports teams are supported by a kilt-clad bear named Scotty. Members of the student Pep Band don plaid berets and sashes as they play the "Brave Scots" fight song at sports matches, and students who play the bagpipes or drums can join the school's Pipe Band as well.

About 70 percent of UCR students are commuters, and freshmen do not have to live on campus. Students may want to hang around after class, however, for notable annual events like the fall Block Party and Spring Splash. There are more than 300 student organizations to check out, too, including about 40 fraternities and sororities. Freshmen can ease into college with the help of the First Year Success Series, a combination of seminars and workshops that teach students study and time management skills. Riverside is in an ideal location for road trips, with Disneyland and Orange County within a 40-mile drive and Los Angeles about 60 miles away.

UCR is one of 10 schools in the University of California system and was the official UC Citrus Experiment Station before becoming a university. In the years since, faculty researchers have bred several new types of fruit, including the Melogold grapefruit and the Golden Nugget orange. Today, the university offers well-regarded graduate programs through the Bourns College of Engineering and Graduate School of Education. Notable alumni include Pulitzer Prize-winning editorial cartoonist Steve Breen, best-selling mystery novel author Elizabeth George and Nobel Prize-winning chemist Richard Schrock.