<p1 Brigham Young University--Provo p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1875. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 30,221, its setting is city, and the campus size is 557 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p1 Brigham Young University--Provo p1>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 68. Its tuition and fees are $5,300 (2016-17).

Student <n life n> centers on <n religion n> and responsibility <n at n> Brigham Young University—Provo, a school founded and supported by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (also known as the Mormon church). There are more than 70 clubs on campus, which meet Tuesday evenings. Each Wednesday, a student volunteer coalition completes community service projects around campus. There is no Greek system at BYU. The BYU Cougars mainly compete in the NCAA Division I West Coast Conference. The football team is known for the number of players drafted by the NFL: more than 70 in the past 30 years. All BYU students can participate in the intramural sports, and about 25,000 choose to do so. Freshmen do not have to live on the Provo, Utah, campus, though the school encourages it. All students live according to a strict honor code, which prohibits – among other things – camping with members of the opposite sex and growing a beard without a doctor's approval. Extramarital and gay sex are also prohibited. Situated at the base of the Wasatch Mountains, the campus is close to plentiful climbing, hiking and biking opportunities. Provo is also home to the Missionary Training Center, where students of the Latter-day Saints faith can enroll to learn and grow before serving at least 18 months around the world.

Known for its excellence in language education, <p1 BYU p1> regularly offers courses in 55 different languages. More than three-quarters of students speak a second language. In addition to its main location in Provo, BYU has campuses in Idaho and Hawaii. Notable BYU alumni include former U.S. presidential candidate Mitt Romney, "Twilight" series author Stephenie Meyer and actors Jon Heder of "Napoleon Dynamite" and Aaron Eckhart of "Batman: The Dark Knight."