<p1 Cardinal Stritch University p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1937. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 1,975, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 40 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Cardinal Stritch University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its tuition and fees are $28,212 
<p1 CSU p1> is an independent Franciscan Catholic institution of higher ed sponsored by the Sisters of St. Francis of Assisi. The University, rooted in the liberal arts, provides graduate and undergraduate programs to prepare students for life and for professional careers. The University assists women and men in pursuing lifelong learning providing both traditional and nontraditional approaches to meet the educational needs of a diverse student body. The University strives to be a caring community. Its faculty and staff regard superior instruction and personal attention to each student as keys to a quality education. Faculty members model and promote meaningful integration of theory and practice. In keeping with Franciscan values, the University fosters the moral, spiritual, intellectual, cultural, emotional, social and physical development of each person. Finally, our academic identity focuses on delivering core programs to traditional students, accelerated programs of adult students and online degrees in 10 different fields.The College of Arts and Sciences offers more than 30 fields of study in 5 academic divisions at both undergraduate and graduate degree levels including Master's in clinical psychology, religious studies and sport management. Although the major academic programs vary from one another in content and direction, they are all grounded in the same core values and disciplines of the liberal arts. Our diverse student body and small student-to-faculty ratio make learning a rich and satisfying experience. Individualized academic advising, at the department and university level, helps provide a framework for students on which they can build a personal education plan.The College of Business provides high-quality, practical education that leads to undergraduate degrees in business administration, management, management information systems, and human services management and master's degrees in management and an M.B.A. The College of Business is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs which is a leading nationally recognized specialized accreditation in business. The College offers traditional programs as well as accelerated formats, with classes meeting one night a week at the main campus, several convenient locations and fully online for working adults.The College of Education has more than 60 years of experience in the field of education and a reputation for innovative, cutting-edge programs. Our undergraduate programs in <n elementary n>, special and language and literacy education are a joint venture with public and private schools, which provide laboratory settings and reflect our commitment to urban education. Master's programs in educational leadership, inclusive education, language and literacy, special education, teaching, urban education among others are focused on the professional needs of educators and leaders and these include face to face and online delivery formats. The Doctorate in Leadership for the Advancement of Learning and Service with tracks in leadership and another in higher education is designed for professionals from an array of businesses or organizations who want to develop or enhance their leadership skills.The Ruth S. Coleman College of Nursing and Health Science offers a highly personal approach to learning through its teaching approaches. Nursing is a high-touch career. At <p1 Stritch p1>, we believe your education should be high touch as well. Here, you'll find small classes, flexible scheduling, and lots of one-on-one instruction. You'll also find a comfortable, supportive environment and nursing programs that are as holistic as the science of nursing itself. Stritch is the only school in Wisconsin offering the full range of nursing programs, from BSN through <n MSN n> degrees. The College also offers a cutting edge bachelor's program in <n Respiratory Therapy n> that is unique and focused on delivering a high quality professional experience. 
