<p1 Clark University p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1887. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 2,397, its setting is city, and the campus size is 50 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Clark University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 74. Its tuition and fees are $43,150 (2016-17).

<p1 Clark University p1>  in Worcester, Mass., is a <n small n> liberal arts institution in the midst of 11 other colleges and universities. Together, the schools make up the Higher Education Consortium of Central Massachusetts. All Clark students can get a WOO card: a pass that grants discounts at area attractions, baseball games and the <n local n> ski slope, Wachusett Mountain. Clark students can also ride the free intercampus shuttle to Becker College, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Assumption College, Worcester State University and College of the Holy Cross. Students can also hop aboard to get to Worcester Public Library, Worcester Art Museum and the local train and bus station. On campus, Clark students can choose from more than 100 clubs and organizations, but the school does <n not n> have a Greek system. The Clark Cougars sports teams compete in the NCAA Division III New England Women’s and Men’s Athletic Conference. Freshmen and sophomores must live on campus, and all students are allowed to bring cars. For road trips, Boston is less than an hour’s drive away; New York City is a three-hour trip. Students can explore more than 50 study abroad options after declaring a major, and about one-third of Clark students participate.

Research is a particular focus for students at <p1 Clark University p1>. Undergraduates are encouraged to get involved, and students showcase their work each semester during Fall Fest and Academic Spree Day. The school's research expertise is a century-long tradition; on campus in 1909, Sigmund Freud gave his famous Clark Lectures about psychoanalysis, and university researchers have been responsible for discoveries that led to the birth control pill and the formula for the wind-chill factor. Notable alumni of Clark University include Matthew Goldman, cofounder of the performance art Blue Man Group; Hugh Panero, former CEO of XM Satellite Radio; Jeffrey Lurie, the owner of the Philadelphia Eagles; and Padma Lakshmi, host of Bravo’s "Top Chef."