<p2 Clemson University p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1889. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 18,016, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 17,000 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p2 Clemson University p2>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 66. Its in-state tuition and fees are $14,240 (2015-16); out-of-state tuition and fees are $32,796 (2015-16).

As a student at Clemson, get ready to love the color orange. The orange Clemson Tigers compete in the NCAA Division I Atlantic Coast Conference. The teams are supported <n by n> notoriously passionate student fans and <n two n> costumed student mascots, known as The Tiger and The Tiger Cub. There are more than 400 student clubs and organizations, and about 25 percent of students are involved in the school's large Greek system. Clemson is set on Hartwell Lake, where students can sail, swim and fish. For indoor fun, the on-campus Underground Recreation Center has a bowling alley, arcade and billiards room. Students can travel for free on campus bus system The CAT, which connects students between Clemson University and the nearby city of Clemson, S.C. The city of Clemson is within walking distance of campus, too, and offers a typical active college scene with many shopping, dining and nightlife <n options n>. Freshmen must live in university housing, and nearly half of all students choose to live on the school's picturesque, tree-lined campus.

<p2 Clemson University p2>  is a land-grant institution that conducts research for the betterment of the community. Students and faculty are involved in projects ranging from improving irrigation systems to lowering youth bullying rates in South Carolina schools. Clemson has graduated many famous athletes, including former Washington Redskins center Jeff Bostic and PGA Tour golfer Lucas Glover. Other notable alumni include politicians such as former U.S. Sen. Strom Thurmond and business personalities like George H. Ross, advisor to Donald Trump on "The Apprentice" and executive vice president and senior counsel for the Trump Organization.