<p1 Georgetown University p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1789. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 7,562, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 104 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p1 Georgetown University p1>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 20. Its tuition and fees are $50,547 (2016-17).

<p1 Georgetown University p1> is situated overlooking the Potomac River just a <n few n> minutes from downtown Washington. There are numerous traditional residence <n halls n>, and freshmen and sophomores are required to live on campus. <n Other n> students choose to live in the townhouses and apartments surrounding campus. Student organizations on campus include religious groups, media outlets and student government. The Georgetown Hoyas are part of the NCAA’s Division I and are well known for their dominant men’s basketball team, which maintains a fierce rivalry with Syracuse University and plays most home games at the Verizon Center, also home to the Washington Wizards. The popular chant "hoya saxa," a mix of ancient Greek and Latin that means "what rocks," gained prominence in 1920 and – contrary to popular belief – has nothing to do with Georgetown’s mascot, Jack the Bulldog.

Georgetown comprises several undergraduate, graduate and professional schools, including the highly ranked Robert Emmett McDonough School of Business, Law Center, School of Medicine, School of Nursing and Health Studies and McCourt School of Public Policy. Georgetown’s Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service also offers well-regarded graduate programs. The neighborhood of Georgetown surrounding the university’s campus houses high-end shopping, restaurants and bars. Notable alumni include former U.S. President Bill Clinton, actor Bradley Cooper, journalist Maria Shriver and Hall of Fame basketball player Patrick Ewing. The famous "Exorcist steps" used in the 1973 horror film "The Exorcist" are located just below Georgetown’s campus.