<p2 Indiana University--Bloomington p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1820. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 38,364, its setting is city, and the campus size is 1,937 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p2 Indiana University--Bloomington p2>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 86. Its in-state tuition and fees are $10,388 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $34,246 (2016-17).

No one quite knows <n what n> a "Hoosier" is, but a murky definition does not stop students at Indiana University— Bloomington from fiercely identifying with the term. The school's sports teams are <n notorious n> competitors in the NCAA Division I Big Ten Conference, and, since Indiana University does not have a mascot, all teams are known simply as Hoosiers. There are more than 750 student organizations on campus, and more than 6,500 students go Greek in the school’s large community of fraternities and sororities. Freshmen must live on campus for at least two semesters, though there are some exceptions. The Midwestern college town of Bloomington, or B-town, as it is known to many, is home to a lively cultural scene. Arts and entertainment performances, such as the annual Lotus World Music & Arts Festival, take place year-round. Students can explore the surrounding area through the Indiana University Outdoor Adventures program, which coordinates hiking, whitewater rafting and rock climbing trips. Active students can compete in the annual Little 500, the largest collegiate bike race in the nation and a fundraiser for university scholarships, or spend 36 hours on their feet in the IU Dance Marathon, a fundraiser for Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis.

Among <p2 IU Bloomington p2>’s many graduate-level programs are the highly ranked Kelley School of Business, School of Education and Maurer School of Law. Distinguished Indiana alumni include composer and songwriter Hoagy Carmichael, who penned “Georgia on My Mind;" screenwriter and producer Jeri Taylor, who wrote for "Star Trek;" and author <n Meg n> Cabot, who wrote "The Princess Diaries" series.