<p2 Jackson State University p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1877. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 7,475, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 250 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p2 Jackson State p2>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its in-state tuition and fees are $7,261 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $17,614

The University produces technologically-advanced, diverse, ethical, global leaders who think critically, address societal problems and compete effectively.<p2 JSU p2> has a distinguished history, rich in the tradition of educating young men and women for leadership, having undergone seven name changes as it grew and developed.Founded as <n Natchez n> <n Seminary n> in 1877 by the American Baptist Home mission Society, the school was established as Natchez, Mississippi for the moral, religious and intellectual improvement of Christian leaders of the colored people of Mississippi and the neighboring states. In November 1882, the school was moved to Jackson; in March 1899, the curriculum was expanded and the name was changed to Jackson College.The state assumed support of the college in 1940, assigning to it the mission of training teachers. Subsequently, between 1953 and 1956, the curriculum was expanded to include a graduate program and bachelors programs in the arts and sciences; the name was then changed to Jackson State College in 1956.Further expansion of the curriculum and a notable building program preceded the elevation of Jackson State College to university status on March 15, 1974. In 1979, Jackson State was officially designated the Urban University of the State of Mississippi. Presently, Jackson State University, a public, coeducational institution, is supported by legislative appropriations supplemented by student fees and federal and private grants.Designated as a high research activity university, Jackson State continues to enhance the state, nation and world through comprehensive economic development, healthcare, technological and educational initiatives. We value our alumni and friends who help to make us great.We have assembled an amazing group of people throughout our four campuses, including some of the best students in the nation and a world-class faculty and staff. With nearly 9,000 students, Jackson State is the fourth largest institution of higher learning in Mississippi. We welcome the opportunity and challenge of providing the best education possible <n for n> the people who choose to study at Jackson State University.
