<p2 Kennesaw State University p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1963. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 30,480, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 581 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Kennesaw State University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its in-state tuition and fees are $8,276 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $21,732 

For more than 50 years, <p2 Kennesaw State p2> has been known for its entrepreneurial spirit and sense of community. Offering campuses in <n Marietta n> and <n Kennesaw n>, the university is located just north of Atlanta and combines a suburban setting with access to one of the country s most dynamic cities. As Georgia s third-largest university, Kennesaw State offers more than 150 undergraduate and graduate degrees, including a growing doctoral program. Designated by the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia as a comprehensive university, Kennesaw State is committed to becoming a world-class academic institution positioned to broaden its academic and research missions and expand its scope on a local, regional and national level. On January 6, 2015, the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia approved the consolidation of Kennesaw State and Southern Polytechnic State University. This represents the USG s fifth and largest consolidation in its continuing commitment to increase efficiencies and effectiveness to better serve students and the state.The new Kennesaw State University combines the best from two of Georgia s most respected institutions in higher education. A comprehensive university, Kennesaw State is a destination campus offering students a broad spectrum of quality academics, a growing and vibrant campus life, award-winning dining facilities, and a wide array of athletic offerings. With nationally ranked degrees in business, engineering and first-year programs, as well as premier teaching, nursing, architecture, science and math programs, the new Kennesaw State University is poised to become Georgia's next world-class institution.<p2 KSU p2> - By The Numbers: Total enrollment: 33,000 (based on Fall 2015); Total degree programs: more than 150 undergraduate, graduate and doctoral degrees; On-campus housing capacity: approximately 5,200 and eight residence halls; Number of alumni: more than 100,000; Economic impact: $1.2 <n billion n> Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia report 2012; Countries represented in the student body: 130; Students participating in continuing education classes: 17,210; Athletic teams: 18 NCAA Division I, including football (Fall 2015). Kennesaw State University has been elevated to a doctoral research institution with moderate research activity designated R3 in The Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Learning 2015 update. The University was previously classified among larger Master s Colleges and Universities or M1 institutions. Under the Carnegie classifications, doctoral research institutions are those that awarded at least 20 research/scholarship doctoral degrees during the upgrade year. In FY 2015, Kennesaw State awarded 40 doctoral degrees, including the Ph.D. in International Conflict Management and doctorates in education, business administration and nursing science. see less 


