<p2 Kent State University p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1910. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 23,607, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 950 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Kent State University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 188. Its in-state tuition and fees are $10,012 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $18,376 (2016-17).

<p2 Kent State University p2> is located in northeastern Ohio, about 40 miles south of Cleveland, with seven regional campuses situated across the state. Students at Kent State can <n choose n> <n from n> more than 300 academic programs, including graduate degrees from the College of Business Administration, the College of Education, Health and Human Services and the highly ranked School of Speech Pathology and Audiology. Undergraduates at Kent State have a unique opportunity to earn a degree in peace and conflict studies, which is offered through the Center for Applied Conflict Management. This center was created shortly after the headline-making 1970 incident in which Ohio National Guardsmen killed four Kent State students during a Vietnam War protest.

Outside the classroom, Kent State students can get involved in more than 200 campus organizations, including Greek life, leadership programs and community service clubs. There are also many events nearby at the Blossom Music Center, the Porthouse Theatre and the Wick Poetry Center, as well as in the neighboring cities of Cleveland and Akron. Student athletes can get involved by playing intramural sports or by trying out for the many Kent State Golden Flashes varsity teams, which compete in the NCAA Division I Mid-American Conference. The members of new wave band Devo attended Kent, as did actor Michael Keaton, comedian Drew Carey and writer David Sedaris, although they did not graduate. Kent State alumni include former talk show host Arsenio Hall and many NFL players, including two-time Super Bowl winner James Harrison.