<p1 Marquette University p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1881. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 8,334, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 107 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p1 Marquette University p1>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 86. Its tuition and fees are $38,470 (2016-17).

<p1 Marquette University p1>, a private Catholic, Jesuit school, is in walking distance of downtown Milwaukee, a city known for its restaurants, zoo and athletics. The Marquette Golden Eagles are members of the NCAA Division I Big East Conference and are especially competitive in basketball. The men's basketball team plays in the BMO Harris Bradley Center, which is also home to the NBA's Milwaukee Bucks. There is no varsity football team, but enthusiasts of <n the n> sport can play at the intramural level. Other sports options include coed club waterskiing and wakeboarding and intramural innertube water polo. Students have about 250 clubs and organizations to get involved in, and about 10 percent of the student body takes part in the Greek system, which includes more than 20 fraternities and sororities. To kick off each spring semester, the university holds the Winter Flurry, a week of games and activities that culminates in a semiformal dance known as Snowball. Freshmen and sophomores must live on campus, unless they reside locally with a family member or guardian. Lake Michigan is a mile from campus, and students can <n travel n> on Milwaukee County Transit System buses for free with a pass.

Marquette has more than 20 academic centers and institutes on campus, including the Thermofluid Science and Energy Research Center and National Sports Law Institute. The Les Aspin Center for Government, located on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., brings students to study and intern in the nation’s capital for a semester. Notable Marquette alumni include <n Gail Collins n>, a New York Times columnist; Patrick Eugene Haggerty, cofounder of Texas Instruments; and Chris Farley, an actor who starred on "Saturday Night Live" and in "Tommy Boy." (In that film, Farley’s character, Tommy Callahan, is also a Marquette graduate.)