<p2 Miami University--Oxford p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1809. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 16,387, its setting is rural, and the campus size is 2,100 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Miami University--Oxford's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 79. Its in-state tuition and fees are $14,288 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $31,592 (2016-17).

<p2 Miami University p2> students make up nearly half the population of the approximately 7-square-mile town of Oxford, Ohio. Freshmen must live on campus, which is also home to more than 500 student organizations. The Greek system constitutes a large part of campus life, with about a third of the student <n body n> involved in more than 50 fraternities and sororities. In fact, the school often gets the moniker “Mother of Fraternities” because the Beta Theta Pi, Phi Delta Theta, <n Phi n>  Kappa Tau and <n Sigma Chi n> organizations were founded at <p2 Miami University p2>. The school is also known as the "Cradle of Coaches" for the number of professional and collegiate coaches who once competed for Miami. The RedHawks, who compete in the Division I Mid-American Conference, were known as the Redskins until 1997. The name was changed after years of controversy and a request from the Miami Indian Tribe. (The tribe is the namesake of the university.) To help ease the transition into freshman year, older students often create a guide to life at Miami University, called the "M Book." Student couples who marry are known as "Miami Mergers" and are reminded of their alma mater each Valentine's Day, when the admissions office sends cards to congratulate former students on finding love at school.

To travel around campus and Oxford, students can use the Butler County Regional Transit Authority buses, free with student ID, and the door-to-door SafeRide shuttle service after dark. Cincinnati and Dayton are 35 and 45 miles away, respectively. Notable alumni of Miami University include Paul Brown, Hall of Fame NFL coach; Richard Smucker, chief executive officer of The J.M. Smucker Co.; and Benjamin Harrison, former president of the United States.
