<p2 Michigan State University p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1855. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 39,143, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 5,192 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p2 Michigan State University p2>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 82. Its in-state tuition and fees are $14,070 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $39,090 (2016-17).

<p2 Michigan State University p2> is a powerhouse institution located in the college town of East Lansing. Downtown, students can choose from dining and nightlife options, and the city is also home to the Great Lakes Folk Festival. Lake Michigan and its beaches are a short trip away, as is the state capital of Lansing. The Michigan State Spartans compete in the NCAA Division I Big Ten Conference, supported by award-winning mascot Sparty. There are more than 600 student clubs and organizations, including more than 55 fraternities and sororities. Members of the Greek community are active in the local community through events like Safe Halloween, an annual carnival for children in East Lansing. All students can get involved in service-learning and <n volunteer n> projects throughout East Lansing like Fill the Bus, an annual campaign to stuff a Spartan-green school bus full of food and school supplies for underprivileged children. The university is home to one of the <n largest n> single-campus residence hall systems in the country, and freshmen must live on campus unless they reside with a family member no more than 50 miles from school. To study farther afield, students can take advantage of more than 260 study abroad programs.

Among its graduate programs is the highly ranked College of Education and well-regarded Eli Broad Graduate School of Management. Michigan State was the first land-grant institution in the country, and became a model for other federally funded schools that devote energy to research projects for the surrounding communities. The school’s sustainability effort, Be Spartan Green, has <n earned n> national recognition. In a similar vein, Michigan State is also home to one of the nation's only environmental journalism organizations, a solar car racing team and a student-run organic farm. Notable alumni of Michigan State include philanthropist and entrepreneur Eli Broad, for whom the business school is named, and Debbie Stabenow, U.S. senator from Michigan. Earvin "Magic" Johnson, basketball star of the Los Angeles Lakers, attended Michigan State for two years before being drafted for the NBA.