<p2 Middle Tennessee State University p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1911. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 20,140, its setting is city, and the campus size is 1,000 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Middle Tennessee State University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its in-state tuition and fees are $8,080 (2015-16); out-of-state tuition and fees are $24,808 

Mission: <p2 Middle Tennessee State p2> is a comprehensive university that embraces its role as the destination of choice for Tennessee undergraduates while expanding its reach nationally and internationally through signature programs and select master's and doctoral programs. The University generates, preserves, and disseminates knowledge and innovation and uses scholarship to enhance teaching and public service. The University is committed to preparing students to thrive in their chosen professions and a changing global society. To fulfill its mission, <p2 MTSU p2> fosters a student-centered environment conducive to lifelong learning, personal development, and success; offers a broad array of high quality, affordable academic programs grounded in a common core of arts and sciences; enhances access and academic opportunity for a diverse student population, including distance learning and other special services and programs for first generation, non-traditional, high-achieving, and transfer students; challenges students through diverse teaching methods and media including educational technology, experiential learning, undergraduate and graduate research, and co-curricular and <n extra-curricular n> activities; recruits exceptional faculty and develops resources to support excellence in instruction, research, creative activity, and public and professional service; develops and <n sustains n> academic partnerships, entrepreneurial activities, outreach and public service that support instruction and research and that meet the needs of communities throughout the region; and serves as an emerging center for international study, understanding, and exchange. Unique Qualities: MTSU attracts a very diverse, largely full-time undergraduate student population with a broad range of academic preparedness. The University is committed to helping each student recognize their academic promise and achieve academic success, and it annually confers more bachelor's degrees than any other Tennessee Board of Regents institution. Most recently, the University <n renewed n> and highlighted its commitment to student success as its number one priority in its Quest for Student Success initiative. Undergraduates are prepared for professional practice in fields such as education, business, mass communication, and nursing, and the University Honors College and various degree programs prepare students for graduate education. MTSU's signature experiential learning program delivers a value added undergraduate education grounded in experiences such as undergraduate research, service learning and civic engagement. MTSU has selected graduate offerings that primarily target education, business, and the applied and behavioral sciences with research focused primarily in the sciences, aviation, public history, and STEM. MTSU's holds the elective Carnegie Community Engagement classification <n with n> its outreach and partnership activities centered on meeting the needs of the middle Tennessee region. The University has always had a large number of "first generation" college students, and students who are self-supporting. For these reasons MTSU is an exceptional school for students who have demanding personal situations, transfer students, and other non-traditional students.
