<p1 Ohio State University--Columbus p1> is a public institution that was founded in 1870. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 45,289, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 1,777 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p1 Ohio State University--Columbus p1>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 54. Its in-state tuition and fees are $10,037 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $28,229 (2016-17).

Located in the state capital of Columbus, The <p1 OSU p1> is a sprawling school with seemingly endless opportunities for students to get involved. There are more than 1,000 clubs and organizations on campus, including about 65 fraternities and sororities. Sports are another big part of campus life, with the Ohio State Buckeyes competing in the NCAA Division I <n Big Ten n> Conference. The athletic teams are named after the state tree and cheered on by mascot <n Brutus n> Buckeye. The football stadium, which was completed in 1922, is listed in the National Register of Historic Places. All Ohio State freshmen must live in one of the more than 35 residence halls across campus, unless a student is from Central Ohio and can commute from home. The Ohio State First Year Experience offers freshmen orientation, mentors and special programming to ease the transition into college. Freshmen can also go on the school’s community service <n spring n> break, a trip to Chicago that is only open to first-year students. Local community service opportunities are easy to find through the school’s Pay It Forward program, which includes an online listing of volunteer events. Students can also study abroad in more than 40 countries through Ohio State.

Ohio State offers a wide variety of graduate programs through its highly ranked College of Education and Human Ecology, Max M. Fisher College of Business, College of Engineering, College of Medicine and Michael E. Moritz College of Law. At the undergraduate level, Ohio State offers more than 175 majors, as well as a Personalized Study Program for students who want to design a nontraditional education. There are notable Ohio State alumni in nearly every industry sector, and famous graduates include actress Patricia Heaton and "Goosebumps" author R. L. Stine.