<p1 Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1824. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 5,864, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 296 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 39. Its tuition and fees are $50,797 (2016-17).

<p1 Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute p1> was founded on the principles of bringing science to everyday life, and that ethos is still prevalent today. About a quarter of students are involved in Greek L.I.F.E., as the fraternity and sorority scene is known at the school, which stresses Leadership, Innovation, Fortitude and Evolution. More students - about three <n fourths n> - play sports at the varsity, club or intramural level. True to the school’s mission, the varsity athletes are known as the Engineers, and compete in the Eastern College Athletic Conference and the Liberty League. There are also more than 175 student organizations. Freshmen must live on campus, usually in dormitories that only house first-year students. RPI’s campus, in Troy, N.Y., is nestled in an ideal location for nature lovers. The school overlooks the Hudson River, where waterfront activities abound, and is close to Grafton Lakes State Park, Lake George and the Adirondack Mountains. For an urban experience, Albany is 9 miles away.

In accordance with its specialty, <p1 RPI p1> has a highly ranked engineering program. The school also uses its scientific specialties to offer unique accelerated programs such as the <n B.S./M.D. n> Physician-Scientist Program, completed in seven years, and the <n B.S./J.D. n> in Science, Technology and Society Law, which takes six years to finish. The university hosts technical events like the annual GameFest, a showcase of computer games designed by students. These kinds of technical skills have led Rensselaer graduates to successful careers as entrepreneurs, inventors, scientists and more. Notable RPI alumni include George W. G. Ferris, creator of the Ferris Wheel, Howard P. Isermann, inventor of sunscreen and Myles Brand, former president of the NCAA.