<p2 Rutgers University--New Brunswick p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1766. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 35,484, and the setting is City. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p2 Rutgers University--New Brunswick p2>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 70. Its in-state tuition and fees are $14,372 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $30,023 (2016-17).

For <n high n> school students who can't decide what their ideal college campus would look like, <p2 Rutgers University p2> may be the solution. The flagship campus of New Jersey's state university, based in New Brunswick, is actually split into five mini-campuses known as Douglass, Cook, College Avenue, Busch and Livingston. Each campus has a unique setting and identity, from the hip student feel of the College Avenue campus to the farmland and science buildings at Cook Campus. Each mini-campus has its own student center and dining options. Freshmen do not have to live on campus, but those who choose to do so have options on each campus, too. There are more than 400 student <n clubs n> and organizations across the mini-campuses, including more than 80 fraternities and sororities. The Rutgers Scarlet Knights compete in the NCAA Division I Big Ten Conference. The university also has a virtual campus on Second Life.

Among its many graduate offerings, Rutgers <n has n> a highly ranked Graduate School of Education. The university awards one of the highest numbers of doctorate degrees a year among U.S. schools. Rutgers is one of more than 60 research institutions selected to be in the Association of American Universities. As a public research university, Rutgers is home to unique institutions such as the Center for Advanced Infrastructure and Transportation and the New Jersey Agricultural Experiment Station, where students take hands-on courses in the sciences and work on community projects. Among the scores of famous Rutgers alumni are actor James Gandolfini and Duncan MacMillan, cofounder of media company Bloomberg.