<p1 Shenandoah University p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1875. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 2,010, its setting is city, and the campus size is 315 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Shenandoah University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 220. Its tuition and fees are $31,322 (2016-17).
<p1 SU p1> is a private, nationally recognized applied liberal arts university that invites students to join a close-knit community rich in creative energy. We attract independent, curious and academically prepared students who seek a rigorous education and exceptional professional training. In our dynamic academic community, students: connect with accomplished professors; engage in small, highly interactive classes; apply what they learn in a variety of experiences outside the classroom; and expand their understanding and perspectives by being involved in global initiatives. As a result, our graduates are empowered to help improve the human condition and prepared to be principled professional leaders. Our main campus is located in Winchester, Virginia, in the historic Shenandoah Valley. Our Northern Virginia Campus, located in Leesburg, Virginia, 45 miles to the east, specializes in graduate study in health professions, nursing, business and education, and also hosts an accelerated undergraduate program in nursing. Shenandoah is composed of seven academic schools, offering 41 undergraduate degrees and 30 graduate degrees, as well as a broad spectrum of minors and undergraduate, post-baccalaureate and post-doctoral certificates. The College of Arts & Sciences provides a classic, broad-based education to satisfy both intellectual curiosity and career goals. Offering small classes and individualized learning opportunities, we put students at the center of all our decisions and events. Shenandoah Conservatory is one of the nation s premier conservatories with a faculty of professionals in music, theatre and dance and alumni that take center stage from Broadway to the concert halls of Europe. With more than 30 performing ensembles and more than 500 concerts, recitals, clinics, masterclasses, theatre and opera productions and dance concerts yearly, students have continual opportunities to perform and be evaluated by both professionals and peers. The <n Harry n> F. <n Byrd n>, Jr. School of Business is led by academically experienced professors with real-world backgrounds in business, government and the military to provide the knowledge and skills to apply on the job or in the community in today's fast-paced, global business environment. The Alumni Mentorship Program, designed by faculty in cooperation with the Office of Alumni Affairs, fosters undergraduate student growth and professional development. The <p1 Eleanor Wade Custer School of Nursing p1> provides learning opportunities within the classroom and a range of clinical environments including hospitals, medical practices and pharmacies. The nursing school houses the Division of Respiratory Care. The School of Education & Human Development educates practitioner-leaders by offering master's and doctoral programs unique in their emphasis on the application of theory to real-world problems and lived experiences, producing caring, capable and reflective teachers, administrators, human services and public sector practitioners. The Bernard J. <n Dunn n> School of Pharmacy uses a highly integrated, student-centered curriculum and progressive instructional technology to educate and train doctoral students and working pharmacists to become ethical and compassionate healthcare professionals who serve their patients and community with optimal pharmaceutical care and advance the pharmacy profession. The School of Health Professions, relying on the deep experiences of a future-focused faculty and hands-on experiences in clinical rotations, includes four divisions: Athletic Training, Occupational Therapy, Physical Therapy and Physician Assistant Studies. 
