<p1 Southern Methodist University p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1911. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 6,411, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 234 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p1 Southern Methodist University p1>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 56. Its tuition and fees are $50,358 (2016-17).

Despite its name, this private university in Dallas is a secular institution when it comes to classes. The school was founded by what became the United Methodist Church in 1911, but it is now home to students of many religious affiliations. Outdoor activities are plentiful in Dallas, a city that boasts an average of 232 days of <n sunshine n> a year. Students can check out the Dallas International Film Festival, which draws 40,000 viewers annually, or explore the more than 400 parks in the city. Students are required to live on campus for their first two years at SMU. The campus is also home to the George W. Bush <n Presidential n> Center, which comprises a Bush administration museum, library and public policy institute, and frequently hosts speakers. The SMU Mustangs sports teams play in the Division <n I n> American Athletic Conference, supported by mascot Peruna, a black stallion Shetland pony. About 2,000 students are involved in SMU Greek life, and all students can participate in annual events such as the Festival of Lights, a candlelit assembly on the school’s Main Quad each December, and the Mane Event, a celebration of spring complete with bands and food.

<p1 SMU p1> has well-regarded graduate offerings at the Cox School of Business and its law school. Undergraduates can get a unique education through the SMU-in-Taos program, which sends students to the school’s campus in the mountains of New Mexico. In historic Fort Burgwin, students gain hands-on learning in courses such as anthropology, biology and astronomy. Notable SMU alumni include former first lady Laura Bush and the late television producer Aaron Spelling.