<p1 Spalding University p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1814. It has a campus size of 6 acres. Spalding University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its tuition and fees are $24,000.

WELCOME TO <p1 SU p1>,One of the most historic institutions of higher education in the Commonwealth of <n Kentucky n>. Conveniently located in downtown Louisville, our campus is nestled between the primary business and entertainment districts of the city and the charming neighborhood of Old Louisville, proudly displaying its elegant Victorian mansions of a bygone era. Spalding uniquely attracts and serves students of all ages interested in a high quality, affordable, private education delivered in a very personalized setting. Spalding University offers a variety of educational opportunities which encourage lifelong learning, growing, and finding your place in the world - within an environment that fosters curiosity and strong moral values.An education from Spalding University prepares you to compete successfully in your chosen career, equipping you with the knowledge and values to make a positive impact on the world. Our students and alumni demonstrate that, by applying yourself to the academic curriculum at Spalding, there are no limits to what you can achieve.Students find overwhelming support at Spalding University. Our faculty is highly qualified and dedicated to helping each student reach his or her highest level of excellence, both academically and personally. By working closely with each student on his/her individual career goals, we look forward to a relationship long after graduation.Spalding is proud to provide a multi-disciplinary approach to education, with courses offered in multiple formats and available in accelerated delivery systems through weekend and evening instruction. To complement our character-building academic environment, we offer intercollegiate athletics and a variety of international programs, as well as opportunities for service-oriented and social interaction at a variety of levels. We help develop internships and practica as well as assist with career guidance and placement. By responding to the ever-changing career market with innovative instructional techniques and technology, Spalding University is an <n unsurpassed n> resource whether you're starting your career, changing careers or simply looking for advancement opportunities.
