<p1 Stevens Institute of Technology p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1870. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 2,873, its setting is city, and the campus size is 55 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Stevens Institute of Technology's ranking in the 2017 edition of  Best Colleges is National Universities, 71. Its tuition and fees are $48,838 (2016-17).

Innovation and entrepreneurship is stressed at <p1 Stevens Institute of Technology p1>, a research-intensive school primarily known for its engineering, science and management programs. The school also has a humanities division with eight majors. Undergraduate students are encouraged to get involved in research projects and develop new technologies through the school's Technogenesis philosophy. Students can opt for a cooperative education track, which is a five-year program with mostly alternating semesters of class and full-time, paid work. Students complete a full first and fifth year at Stevens, and pay for only four years of school. On campus, in Hoboken, N.J., there are more than 120 clubs and organizations, including about 15 fraternities and sororities. Housing is guaranteed for four years, and more than 60 percent of students choose to live on campus. The campus lies along the Hudson River, and New York City is a boat or <n subway n> ride away.

The Stevens Ducks mainly compete in the NCAA Division III Empire 8 Athletic Conference, and, through the school’s Adopt-a-Team program, all student athletes have a faculty mentor to help them juggle sports and school work. Incoming freshmen also do not have the hassle of buying a new laptop; each student is given a notebook computer with software configured to his or <n her n> major. The school was exclusively for male students until 1971, and now, females make up close to 30 percent of the student body.

Stevens also has a campus in Washington, D.C., where graduate students interested in working in the government sector can study systems engineering, maritime security and more. Notable Stevens alumni include Alfred W. Fielding, one of the inventors of Bubble Wrap packaging material, and Frederick Winslow Taylor, widely known as the father of scientific management.