<p2 Stony Brook University--SUNY p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1957. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 16,831, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 1,454 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p2 Stony Brook University--SUNY p2> s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 96. Its in-state tuition and fees are $9,026 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $26,266 (2016-17).

<p2 Stony Brook University p2> is one of 64 schools in the State University of New York (SUNY) system. Located on the North Shore of Long Island, the university is accessible by car, train and ferry, and many students choose to commute. Freshmen do <n not n> have to live on campus. Academic activity pauses each Wednesday from 1 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. for Campus Life <n Time n>, when students can check out free concerts, sample free food and take a break from the rigor of classes. Annually, students gather for events like the Roth Pond Regatta, a race of <n student-made n> cardboard boats, and the Shirley Strum Kenny Student Arts Festival, a week of student work showcases. Students can also check out more than 300 student organizations on campus, including more than 30 fraternities and sororities. On the athletic fields, the Stony Brook Seawolves compete in the NCAA Division I America East Conference. For a workout off the field, students can bike and hike around Stony Brook’s large, wooded campus, which includes the Ashley Schiff Park Preserve. For an urban experience, New York City is about 60 miles away.

Stony Brook is home to the only undergraduate journalism school in the SUNY system as well as the highly ranked Stony Brook University Medical Center. The university also has a location in Southampton and a classroom building in Manhattan. Notable alumni include Patricia S. Cowings, the first woman to be trained as an astronaut in the United States, and Craig Allen, a meteorologist for WCBS Newsradio 880 in New York City.