<p2 SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1911. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 1,839, its setting is city, and the campus size is 12 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 99. Its in-state tuition and fees are $7,770 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $17,620 (2016-17).

The <p2 SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry p2> offers students a niche education with the benefits of life at a large institution. ESF, as the small school is known for short, offers about 20  Bachelor of Science <n degrees n> ranging from aquatics and fisheries science to paper engineering, as well as a landscape architecture program. Students can get a broader experience, however, through neighbor school Syracuse University. The two institutions, both located in Syracuse, New York, have a collegiate partnership. ESF students can enroll in courses, live in residence halls, use <n campus n> facilities and join student organizations at Syracuse University. ESF and Syracuse students even graduate in a joint commencement ceremony each May. All ESF freshmen must live on the school’s campus, however. The school has its own array of about 25 clubs. The ESF Mighty Oaks sports teams compete in the United States Collegiate Athletic Association, made up of small schools, and students can take part in club and intramural sports at Syracuse. ESF has an additional campus in the Adirondack Mountains, called the Ranger School, where students can study forest technology. The Ranger School offers associate degree programs, as well as courses toward a bachelor's degree. Earth Day is a weeklong celebration at the environmental school, with events like yoga on the campus quad, student-wide barbecues and volunteer clean-ups of local streams.

ESF is one of 64 schools in the State University of New York system. The university is often recognized for its sustainability efforts, and its faculty is highly engaged in research projects. ESF has produced notable graduates, including Reginald Balch, a Canadian photographer and scientist, and Sol Feinstone, a historian and author.