<p2 Texas A&M University--Commerce p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1889. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 7,642, its setting is rural, and the campus size is 2,203 acres. It utilizes a differs by program-based academic calendar. Texas A&M University--Commerce's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its in-state tuition and fees are $7,898 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $20,138.

Located near <n Dallas/Fort n> Worth, <p2 TAMU-Commerce p2> serves more than 13,000 students and is the third-largest member of The Texas A&M University System. Since its founding in 1889, A&M-Commerce has provided for student success. The university supports its students whether online or at one of its seven locations. It makes scholarships available to incoming freshmen through the Honors College, First Year Leadership Class, Regents Scholar, Mane Achievement, UPRIDE, and Freshman Student Access and Success scholarship programs. Endowments and department scholarships also provide assistance. The Student Access and Success Center is a one-stop shop that removes barriers to admissions, financial aid and advising. The academic colleges offer degrees in more than 100 majors. The university also has NCAA Division II athletic teams, a thriving Greek system and 120 student organizations. Recent awards and achievements include: A&M-Commerce has been classified as Doctoral University-Higher Research Activity (R2) by the Carnegie Classification 2015 Update, a distinction held by only 2.3% of U.S. post-secondary institutions. The academic reputation, cost and types of graduate programs available are the top three reasons graduate students stayed at A&M-Commerce, according to a fall 2015 survey of graduates. College Values Online recognized the university as a top-10 best value in 2016 for online undergraduate business degrees. The College of Business runs the largest MBA program in North Texas, according to the Dallas Business Journal, and is among the 5 percent of the world s business schools maintaining accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB). Our Library Science program ranks No. 6 in the <n Top 25 n> Library Science Degree Online Graduate Programs list on graduate programs.com, tied with Syracuse University. The U.S. Dept of Education s Office of English Language Acquisition awarded a $1.6 million Profes! Grant Award to A&M-Commerce for student scholarships and professional development for teachers and administrators in the area of bilingual education. A&M-Commerce s Counseling Program Ranks No. 23 on Graduate Programs Website nationwide, and No. 1 in Texas. Dr. Unal "Zak" Sakoglu of the Computer Science Department was awarded with a <n U.S. n> Air Force Research Lab Summer Faculty Fellowship award for the summer of 2016. Our Master of Education in Curriculum and Instruction and online Master of Science in Curriculum and Instruction degrees are ranked No. 5 in the list "Top 50 Most Affordable Master s in Curriculum and Instruction Online 2015." The top artificial intelligence journal published an article by two professors and a graduate student at A&M-Commerce. Their paper discusses a method to develop and evaluate knowledge bases for medical-decision support systems. Soprani Compagni chose Assistant Professor of Music Theory Dr. David Davies to be part of an elite group of 13 composers from around the nation to participate in a new works symposium called Portraits of Women in Contemporary Soprano Duet. Our physics and astronomy experts support the revamping of the premiere 30-year-old Jacobus Kapteyn Telescope on the Spanish island of La Palma, made possible by a consortium of universities that includes A&M-Commerce. A&M-Commerce is expanding an emerging form of teacher preparation by partnering with the Dallas Teacher Residency program. The partnership provides a pipeline of teacher candidates who will complete their preparation and certification through innovative teacher residencies. <p2 TAMUC p2> More than <n 95% n> of undergraduate and graduate students gave a thumbs-up to their educational experience at A&M-Commerce, according to graduates surveyed in fall 2015. And A&M-Commerce graduates are prepared for an interconnected world, according to more than 90% of baccalaureate graduates surveyed in fall 2015.
