<p2 Texas State University p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1899. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 33,480, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 491 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Texas State University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its in-state tuition and fees are $10,218 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $22,458.

<p2 Texas State p2> is a comprehensive institution serving over 37,900 students. The university attracts students from every region of Texas, as well as 52 states or territories, and 65 countries. Over 40 percent of the student body is ethnically diverse. Situated in the scenic Texas Hill country, between Austin and San Antonio, Texas State\'s beautiful 491-acre campus is located at the headwaters of the spring-fed San Marcos River. The university\'s rolling hills, traditional architecture, and stately oak and cypress trees create an impressive academic setting. Offering 96 baccalaureate and 98 graduate degree programs, Texas State provides a challenging and rewarding academic environment within state-of-the art facilities on the main campus in San Marcos and in Round Rock. The most popular majors include psychology, management, marketing, electrical engineering, biology, journalism and mass communications, nursing, elementary education, communication design, and criminal justice. While Texas State is rapidly emerging as one of the state\'s leading institutions for research, the university\'s primary emphasis and mission continues to be undergraduate instruction and student success. Eighteen Texas State faculty members have been recognized as Piper Professors, the state\'s most prestigious award for undergraduate teaching \- the second highest number among all colleges and universities in the state. The university also has an extensive student life program, characterized by more than than 300 student clubs and organizations; each designed to help students develop their professional, personal and social interests. Texas State remains the only university in Texas to have graduated a United States President - <n Lyndon n> B. <n Johnson n>. 
