<p2 Texas A&M University--College Station p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1876. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 48,960, its setting is city, and the campus size is 5,200 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Texas A&M University--College Station's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 74. Its <n in-state n> tuition and fees are $10,176 (2015-16); out-of-state tuition and fees are $28,768 (2015-16).

Ready to be an Aggie? All students assume the nickname at <p2 Texas A&M p2>, an academic and athletic powerhouse in central Texas. Once an all-men’s school called the Agricultural and Mechanical College - now shortened to A&M - the university today is coed and has offers a wide variety of majors and activities. Students can choose from more than 800 clubs and organizations, including nearly 60 fraternities and sororities. About 10 percent of students go Greek. More students, about 25 percent, play in Texas A&M intramural sports leagues, one of the largest programs in the country. The school’s varsity sports compete in the NCAA Division I Southeastern Conference, cheered on by mascot Reveille VIII, a collie. Miss Rev, as the collie is known, is also the highest-ranking member in the school’s Cadet Corps, the largest ROTC program in the nation (not including programs at service academies). First-year students interested in community service can get involved right away through the Freshmen in Service and Hosting program (FISH). All students can give back <n during n> The Big Event, the largest single-day, student-run volunteer effort in the country in which more than 15,000 Aggies work to improve the nearby cities of College Station and Bryan. For many students, these communities are also home; freshmen are not required to live on campus and many choose to live in College Station or Bryan.

The university has highly ranked graduate offerings through its Dwight Look College of Engineering, Mays Business School and College of Education and Human Development. The school, which is known as a research institution, offers unique programs including the only veterinary medicine school in Texas. The school also has a campus in Qatar, where about 500 students enroll. Notable alumni of Texas A&M include dozens of politicians such as U.S. Reps. Joe Barton and Louie Gohmert, and a handful of beauty pageant winners, including Miss USA Kandace Krueger and Miss Louisiana USA Melissa McConnell.