<p2 Binghamton University--SUNY p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1946. It has a total <n undergraduate n>  enrollment of 13,491, its setting is suburban, and the <n campus n> size is 930 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Binghamton University--SUNY's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges <n is n> National Universities, 86. Its in-state tuition and fees are $9,044 (2015-16); out-of-state tuition and fees are  $22,164 (2015-16).

Outdoor recreation abounds in the southeastern New York location of <p2 Binghamton University p2>. Despite its name, the university is actually located in Vestal, N.Y., a suburb of Binghamton. The campus includes a nature preserve, complete with a forest and pond where students can hike, bike and run around. Through the Adventure Resource Center and the Outdoor Pursuits program, students can participate in organized kayaking, climbing and camping trips or can plan an excursion of their own. Winter sports fans can go skiing and snowboarding at Greek Peak, a 30-mile trip from campus. On campus, annual student events include University Fest and Spring Fling, two outdoor celebrations with live music, carnival rides and food. There are more than 250 student organizations, including about 50 recognized fraternities and sororities.

Freshmen must live on campus, and, because of space restrictions, no graduate students are permitted to do so. One perk of living in the school's residence facilities: free laundry. The Binghamton Bearcats compete in the NCAA Division I America East Conference, and student fans form the BU Zoo cheering section during basketball games. The school mascot is a bearcat named Baxter. On average, more than nine in 10 students remain at SUNY Binghamton after freshman year, one of the highest first-year retention rates in the country.

<p2 Binghamton University p2> is ranked as one of the top schools in the state of New York. Highly ranked graduate programs include the Department of History, Department of Public Administration and Department of Psychology. In addition, the university is renowned for its sustainability efforts. Notable alumni include Madeleine Smithberg, the co-creator and former executive producer of "The Daily Show," Andrew Bergman, the screenwriter who penned "Blazing Saddles," and Tony Kornheiser, an ESPN commentator.