<p1 Columbia University p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1754. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 6,102, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 36 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p1 Columbia University p1>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 5. Its tuition and fees are $55,056 (2016-17).

<p1 Columbia University p1>, located in Manhattan’s Morningside Heights neighborhood in New York City, offers a <n wide n> range of student activities. The Columbia Lions field more than 25 NCAA Division I teams in the Ivy League. More than 90 percent of students live in on-campus housing, ranging from traditional residence halls to university-owned brownstones. Many of the <n brownstones n> are populated by the more than 25 Greek fraternity and sorority <n chapters n> on campus, whose membership includes about 10 percent of the student body. Organizations such as Urban New York, which gives out free tickets to city events, foster student interaction with life in the Big Apple.

Columbia is comprised of three undergraduate schools—Columbia College, The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS) and the School of General Studies—as well as a number of graduate and professional schools. Columbia’s graduate programs include the highly ranked Business School, Teachers College, SEAS, Law School, College of Physicians and Surgeons, School of International and Public Affairs, School of the Arts and Mailman School of Public Health. The university also has a well-regarded College of Dental Medicine and Graduate School of Journalism. Columbia is affiliated with Barnard College for women, the Union Theological Seminary and the Jewish Theological Seminary of America. Distinguished alumni include John Jay, founding father and first Supreme Court Justice; President Barack Obama; songwriting team Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II; and actress Maggie Gyllenhaal. Columbia also administers the Pulitzer Prizes.