<p1 Fordham University p1> is a private institution that was founded in <n 1841 n>. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 8,855, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 93 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Fordham University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 60. Its tuition and fees are $47,317 (2015-16).

At <p1 Fordham University p1>, "New York is [your] campus" as the school’s website says. With campuses throughout New York City, students live and learn in the thick of an urban experience. The school’s original Bronx campus, Rose Hill, is in walking distance to the Bronx Zoo, New York Botanical Gardens and Little Italy. Today, Fordham has two more campuses: Lincoln Center, which is close to Central Park, and Westchester campus, which is in West Harrison, N.Y. Freshmen <n do n> not have to live on campus, but any student who is promised housing upon admittance to the school is guaranteed a room for four consecutive years. Students can travel between campuses on the school’s Ram Van, a burgundy shuttle that runs every half hour. The van makes enough trips, the school has calculated, that it’s covered a distance equivalent to traveling around the world 18.5 times a year. The Fordham Rams play in the NCAA Division I Atlantic 10 Conference. <p1 Fordham University p1>, a Jesuit institution, does not have a Greek system.

Among Fordham’s graduate programs is the highly ranked Fordham School of Law, which is home to the first Fashion Law Institute in the country. Graduates and undergraduates alike <n may n> take advantage of the Louis Calder Center, a biological field station where environmental studies courses and research are conducted. A dozen graduate students a year can live in log cabins on the biological field station to be closer to their research. Notable alumni include NBA sportscaster Mike Breen, former U.S. Rep. Robert Giaimo of Connecticut and former U.S. Postmaster General John E. Potter.