<p2 Iowa State University p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1858. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 30,034, its setting is city, and the campus size is 1,813 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Iowa State University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 111. Its in-state tuition and fees are $7,969 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $21,483 (2016-17).

<p2 Iowa State University p2> dwarfs Ames, the small town in which it resides. The large school offers more than 800 student organizations, and sports are a big part of <n campus n>life. The Iowa State Cyclones compete in the NCAA Division I Big 12 Conference and share a special rivalry with the University of Iowa Hawkeyes. Despite the Cyclones moniker, the school mascot is a cardinal named Cy because a cyclone was hard to put into costume form. There are <n nearly n> 50 fraternities and sororities at Iowa State, and most chapters have their own houses. Freshmen do not have to live on campus.

There are more than 100 undergraduate majors offered at Iowa State, and, through the Soar in 4 initiative, advisers work with students to ensure they graduate in four years. For a study break, students can take a stroll through the roses in Reiman Gardens or check out more than 2,000 works of art around the campus – one of the largest collections at any school in the country. For trips off campus, Des Moines is 30 minutes away.

Iowa State University offers highly ranked graduate programs through its College of Veterinary Medicine and College of Engineering, as well as an interdepartmental degree program in human computer interaction. The university is a land-grant institution, meaning faculty and students work on research projects that better the community as a whole. At the university's Iowa Agriculture and Home Economics Experiment Station, projects range from biorenewable fuel production to soybean research. The campus is also home to the Ames Lab, a research center for the U.S. Department of Energy. Notable alumni include Bruce Roth, inventor of the pharmaceutical drug Lipitor, and Carrie Chapman Catt, co-founder of the League of Women Voters.