<p1 Northeastern University p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1898. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 13,697, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 73 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. <p1 Northeastern University p1>'s ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 39. Its tuition and fees are $47,655 (2016-17).

At <p1 Northeastern University p1>, students <n gain n> substantial work experience before receiving their diplomas. About 90 percent of Northeastern undergraduates complete at least one professional co-op during their college career, working for one of more than 2,000 employers around the world, such as GEICO and MTV. Students can choose to complete their degree in four years, with the potential for two co-ops, or five years, building in time for three co-ops. Outside of the classroom and workplace, there are more than 300 clubs and organizations for students, including about 25 fraternities and sororities. The Northeastern Huskies compete in the NCAA Division I Colonial Athletic Conference. More than 3,000 students compete at the club and intramural sport <n level n>. Freshmen and sophomores are required to live on campus. Northeastern’s campus is spread out across 73 acres in the venerable college town of Boston. Northeastern has its own stop on Boston’s subway system, commonly called the T. The city, home to myriad colleges, is steeped in American history and <n full n> of activities for students.

The university receives hefty research grants each year from the National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health, as well as the Departments of Homeland Security, Energy and Defense. Undergraduates and graduates alike can get involved in research, and many present projects in the annual Research, Innovation and Scholarship Expo. Notable alumni include talk show host Wendy Williams and astronaut Albert Sacco. Napster founder Shawn Fanning attended but did not graduate from Northeastern.