<p2 Pennsylvania State University--University Park p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1855. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 40,742, its setting is city, and the campus size is 8,556 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Pennsylvania State University--University Park's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 50. Its in-state tuition and fees are $17,900 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $32,382 (2016-17).

There is rarely a dull moment on the <p2 Pennsylvania State University--University Park p2> campus, also known as Happy Valley. With around 950 clubs and organizations, there are broad opportunities to get involved in campus life. The school mascot is the Nittany Lion, and teams compete in the Division I Big 10 Conference. The football team plays in Beaver Stadium, which is one of the largest arenas in North America with room for more than 107,000 fans. Penn State is home to a thriving Greek system with nearly 90 sororities and fraternities. About 15,000 students volunteer in THON, the largest student-run philanthropy in the world. Students raise <n money n> for pediatric cancer research and awareness throughout the year and participate in a 46-hour dance marathon - no sitting or sleeping allowed. Freshmen must live in one of five housing areas on campus. Across the street from campus is State College, a bustling small town with an array of coffee shops, restaurants, shops and <n bars n> populated mostly by students. Surrounded by mountains, the school is also close to skiing, snowboarding and hiking opportunities.

The land-grant institution, which originally was offered state land in exchange for agricultural courses and research, offers highly ranked graduate programs through the College of Education and the College of Engineering. Undergraduates produce the Daily Collegian newspaper, and students get free daily copies of The New York Times, USA Today and Centre Daily Times - the local paper - through the school’s Newspaper Readership Program, the first of its kind. Notable alumni include John Cappelletti, a Heisman Trophy winner and former NFL player; and Valerie Plame Wilson, former CIA agent and author. 