<p2 Purdue University--West Lafayette p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1869. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 29,497, its setting is city, and the campus size is 2,468 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Purdue University--West Lafayette's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 60. <n Its n> in-state tuition and fees are $10,002 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $28,804 (2016-17).

<p2 Purdue University p2>'s West Lafayette, Indiana, campus is the main campus in the Purdue University system, which encompasses four other campuses throughout the state. Nearly 20 percent of students are affiliated with Greek life, and Purdue offers a wide range of activities and organizations. Performance groups include the "All American" Marching Band, four jazz bands and two symphony orchestras. The Boilermakers, Purdue’s athletic teams, compete in the Division I Big Ten Conference and are well known for their dominant men’s and women’s basketball teams. The Boilermaker Special, Purdue’s official mascot, is a railroad locomotive cared for and maintained by the student-run Purdue Reamer Club. Although no students are required to live in university housing, about <n one-third n> of undergraduates live on campus.

Purdue is made up of 12 schools and colleges, many of which serve both undergraduate and graduate students. Professional and graduate programs include the well-ranked College of Engineering, Krannert School of Management, College of Education and College of Pharmacy. Purdue’s esteemed School of Aeronautics and Astronautics within the College of Engineering has acquired the nickname "Cradle of Astronauts." One popular university tradition: many students mark the beginning and end of their time at Purdue by running through either of the campus fountains. Notable alumni include legendary college basketball coach and player John Wooden, popcorn entrepreneur Orville Redenbacher and the first man to walk on the moon, Neil Armstrong.