<p1 Regent University p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1978. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 2,995, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 70 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Regent University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its tuition and fees are $16,700.

<p1 RU p1> prepares students with the knowledge to excel and the faith to live with purpose. This fully accredited Christian university offers associate, bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees on campus in Virginia Beach, Virginia, and online. Since its establishment in 1978, Regent has prepared over 20,000 students from more than 110 countries to become accomplished professionals. Named a top-20 school nationally for online bachelor's programs and #15 online bachelor's programs for military veterans by U.S. News & World Report, 2016, Regent develops extraordinary Christian leaders. The university is also in the top two percent of schools nationally to receive an "A" rating for its comprehensive undergraduate liberal arts curriculum by the American Council of Trustees and Alumni and is a top military-friendly university. Regent's beautiful 70-acre campus, featuring Georgian-style architecture, is a tribute to excellence in learning with high-tech classrooms and state-of-the-art facilities. Regent's diverse student body of nearly 8,000 students represents all 50 states and 40 <n religious n> denominations. On average, Regent's annual tuition is $15,000 less than that of other private institutions, and a majority of Regent's full-time student body receives financial aid. Within an atmosphere of academic excellence and spiritual integration, Regent provides students with an innovative learning environment that includes the option of enrolling solely on campus, 100 percent online, or using a blend of both with no compromise of academic quality or personal enrichment. <n Eight n>-week sessions are available to undergraduate students and many master s-level students. Regardless of which format is chosen, students enjoy learning from award-winning faculty who understand the needs of today's employers. Other accomplishments include Regent's School of Law faculty being named as among the Top 10 in the Nation by the Princeton Review, 2013, 2014 and 2014 and the Regent Law <n moot n> court program being named among the top five in the nation (<p1 University of Houston Law Center p1>, 2016). Regent alumni serve as top leaders and mentors, including a former governor, a National Middle School Principal of the Year, a Virginia State Teacher of the Year, more than 400 award-winning film and communication professionals, respected lawyers, judges, counselors, CEOS and more. 
