<p1 Syracuse University p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1870. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 15,196, its setting is city, and the campus size is 708 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Syracuse University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 60. Its tuition and fees are $45,022 (2016-17).

Few schools are associated with a color as strongly as Syracuse University. A brilliant shade of orange is tied into campus life, manifesting itself in student media outlets such as The Daily Orange, the student-run newspaper, and CitrusTV, the television studio. The school’s sports teams are known simply as Orange and compete in the NCAA Division I Atlantic Coast Conference, cheered on by school mascot Otto the Orange. The football team plays in Carrier Dome, famed as the only domed stadium in the Northeast.

The school’s campus sits on University Hill, above the sprawling city of Syracuse in central New York state. With about 100 inches of snowfall each year, the bitterly cold winters at Syracuse University give students plenty of opportunities for skiing, snowboarding and sledding on nearby mountains. On campus, there are more than 300 student organizations. About 30 percent of Syracuse students are involved in Greek life. All freshmen and sophomore students must live in on-campus housing, though there are some exceptions. The free Connective Corridor bus shuttles transport students between campus and downtown Syracuse, where annual celebrations include a <n Winterfest n> and a Jazz Fest.

<p1 Syracuse University p1> offers undergraduates a variety of study <n abroad n> opportunities, including through the school’s overseas centers and programs with partner institutions. Freshmen interested in the liberal arts can spend their first semester studying abroad through the Discovery Programs in Madrid; Strasbourg, France; or Florence, Italy. Notable alumni of Syracuse include writer Joyce Carol Oates, actor Jerry Stiller, former professional football player Donovan McNabb and singer and actress Vanessa Williams.