<p2 Texas A&M University--Kingsville p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1925. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 6,605, and the setting is City. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Texas A&M University--Kingsville's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its in-state tuition and fees are $8,050 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $19,173.

<p2 TAMUK p2> is South Texas greatest university, offering more academic programs and degrees, providing better learning and living facilities, doing more research, awarding more scholarships and producing more successful graduates than any other college or university in the region. A&M-Kingsville seeks to provide quality undergraduate and graduate programs for students of all ages through a judicious blend of liberal and career education programs. The emphasis is on providing an intellectually challenging education reflecting high standards of academic performance. Texas A&M-Kingsville is dedicated to serving an ethnically and culturally diverse population. The university is committed to its mission of teaching, research and service in South Texas for the advancement of knowledge and of regional development. Texas A&M University-Kingsville has superior faculty and courses to provide an education that helps students get where they want to go. Degrees include well-known programs in engineering, animal and wildlife sciences, kinesiology, social work, and music, along with new bachelor s degree programs in veterinary technology and criminal justice, and a new master s degree program in criminology. Some points of distinction include A&M-Kingsville offering the world s only master s degree in ranch management through the King Ranch Institute for Ranch Management; the university s Caesar Kleberg Wildlife Research Center and Citrus Center garner international recognition; and the National Natural Toxins Research Center is the only <n federally n> funded viper research center in the U.S. and is one of the leading research centers in the world for discovering toxins for use in biomedical research. A reputation as a top-tier institution of higher learning goes beyond South Texas. Texas A&M University Kingsville consistently appears in the annual Forbes America s Best Colleges list, and it is ranked among the top institutions awarding graduate engineering degrees to Hispanics, according to Diverse: Issues in Higher Education and The Hispanic Outlook in Higher Education Magazine. BestColleges.com, a website that compiles surveys and research for prospective college students and their families, named Texas A&M Kingsville no. 41 of 50 Colleges with the Best Financial Aid one of just seven Texas schools on the list. Starting salaries for Texas A&M-Kingsville graduates are among the highest both regionally and in the state, according to the national college salary report released annually by PayScale, Inc. Texas A&M-Kingsville housing choices include modern suite-style living, traditional residence halls, and living-learning communities where students with similar majors or interests live and study. Kingsville, home to the university and the legendary King <n Ranch n>, is safe and friendly, with a population of 25,000. Texas A&M-Kingsville offers a student shuttle service to shopping areas, restaurants, and other businesses.
