<p1 Tulane University p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1834. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 6,662, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 110 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic <n calendar n>. Tulane University's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 39. Its tuition and fees are $51,010 (2016-17).

At Tulane University, located <n in n> New Orleans, students can experience a thriving — and re-establishing — city that is known for more than just its raucous Mardi Gras celebrations. The school is divided between an Uptown campus, its main location, and a Downtown campus, the center for health science programs. The French Quarter, about four miles from the main campus, is a popular tourist spot known for its music scene, nightlife and shopping. Freshmen and sophomores must live on campus, unless a student lives locally with parents, is married or is older than 21. There are more than 200 student organizations on campus, including about 20 sororities and fraternities. About a quarter of students are involved in the Greek system. The Tulane Green Wave sports teams compete in the Division I American Athletic Conference, and the school’s colors are olive green and blue. Through Tulane After Dark, students can choose from a variety of evening activities such as concerts, comedy shows and murder mystery parties. Since Hurricane Katrina, hundreds of students a year have volunteered in community service efforts to rebuild the city.

The school has a well-regarded law school, and its School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine is the only specialty school of its kind in the United States. The school received funding from the National Institutes of Health to establish an International Center of Excellence in Malaria Research for West and Central Africa. Female students at <p1 Tulane University p1> receive extra support through the Newcomb College Institute, which hosts symposiums and guest speakers and offers mentors to young women. Notable alumni include former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, talk show host Jerry Springer and the creator of HBO’s hit show "Entourage," Douglas R. Ellin.