<p2 University of Iowa p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1847. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 23,357, its setting is city, and the campus size is 1,880 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of Iowa's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 82. Its in-state tuition and fees are $8,325 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $28,413 (2016-17).

The <p2 University of Iowa p2>  offers top-notch academic programming in more than 100 areas. Students looking to hone their leadership skills have many options, too: They can enroll in the LeaderShape Institute, a six-day getaway workshop; attend the Leadership Development Series, which meets three times a semester; or participate in one of the many programs offered through the Center for Student Involvement & Leadership. Freshmen do not have to live on campus, but more than 90 percent choose to do so. Campus life may pose a challenge to tobacco users, as Iowa is a smoke-free campus. Students have more than 500 clubs and organizations from which to choose, and close to 10 percent of students go Greek as members of the school's nearly 50 fraternities and sororities. Sports are another big focus of campus life; even in the competitive NCAA Division I Big Ten Conference, the Iowa Hawkeyes are notorious players. Four blocks from campus is Iowa City, a Midwestern metropolis that has been recognized among the nation’s best for its scenery, greenery and sustainable energy efforts.

The University of Iowa   has many well-ranked graduate programs, including degrees offered through its College of Law, <n Roy J. n> and Lucille A. Carver College of Medicine, <n Henry B. Tippie n> School of Management and College of Education. The University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics is a very highly ranked facility as well. Famous Iowa alumni include George Gallup, founder of the public opinion Gallup Poll; George Nissen, inventor of the trampoline; and Diablo Cody, screenwriter of "Juno" and "Jennifer’s Body." Actor Ashton Kutcher was briefly a Hawkeye who studied biomedical engineering before a modeling agent spotted him.