<p2 University of Texas--Austin p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1883. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 39,619, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 434 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of Texas--Austin's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 56. Its in-state tuition and fees are $9,806 (2016-17); out-of-state tuition and fees are $34,676 (2016-17).

Everything is bigger in Texas, as the saying goes, and it holds true at the University of Texas—Austin, one of the largest schools in the nation. The school has one of the biggest Greek systems in the country, two of the largest student publications and <n more n> than 900 clubs and organizations for students. 
The <p2 UT—Austin p2> sports teams <n are n> notorious competitors in the Division I Big 12 Conference, supported by mascot Bevo the Longhorn. The UT Tower, a lofty campus structure, is lit in the school’s burnt orange color after notable sports achievements and glows a ‘#1' when a team wins a national championship. Freshmen do not have to live on campus, and may choose to live in downtown Austin, situated about a quarter mile away. The vibrant city is known for its music, food, outdoor activities and nightlife, and students can travel for free on the capitol Metro buses with proof of ID.

UT is divided into 18 schools and colleges, the largest of which is the College of Liberal Arts. UT’s graduate programs include the highly ranked McCombs School of Business, College of Education, Cockrell School of Engineering, College of Fine Arts, School of Nursing, College of Pharmacy and School of Social Work, in addition to the well-regarded School of Architecture. UT offers hundreds of study abroad programs, with the most popular destinations being Spain, Italy, the United Kingdom, France and China. Notable alumni include former pitcher Roger Clemens, actor Matthew McConaughey of films "The Wedding Planner" and "How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days" and former first lady Laura Bush.