<p1 University of Tulsa p1> is a private institution that was founded in 1894. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 3,478, its setting is city, and the campus size is 209 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of Tulsa's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 86. Its tuition and fees are $38,796 (2016-17).

Students at the <p1 University of Tulsa p1> leave with two transcripts: an academic one and a co-curricular one. The CCT, as the latter is known, is a log of all membership in clubs, any leadership positions and any marketable skills a student has gained while in college. To beef up a CCT, students can get involved in more than 200 student clubs and organizations. The school’s Greek system has more than 10 fraternities and sororities. Freshmen and sophomores must live on campus, unless they commute from a parent's home within 20 miles of campus. Students who are at least 21 years old or married may live off campus, too. The Golden Hurricane sports teams are members of the Division I American Athletic Conference, and the school’s mascot is a superhero named Captain Cane. Students can join in <n Hurricane n> Thursdays, campus celebrations that alternate between carnivals, concerts and more. The TU campus is two miles away from downtown Tulsa, Oklahoma, a city of about half a million people that is home to performing arts centers, museums, shops and nightclubs. The state capital of Oklahoma City is about 100 miles away.

The University of Tulsa is known for its petroleum engineering programs, which are taught in a $16 million facility complete with drilling simulator. Any student, regardless of major, can get involved in research projects as early as freshman year. TU is also home to one of the first college campus mosques in the country, which was built with the help of private funds. Notable TU alumni include Tampa Bay Buccaneers head coach Lovie Smith. Television psychologist <n Dr. Phil n> (Phillip McGraw) attended the University of Tulsa before transferring to another school.