<p2 University of Louisiana--Lafayette p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1898. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 15,870, its setting is city, and the campus size is 1,400 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of Louisiana--Lafayette's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, Tier 2. Its in-state tuition and fees are $8,256 (2015-16); out-of-state tuition and fees are $21,984.

The <p2 ULL p2>, the largest member of the University of Louisiana System, is a public institution of higher education offering bachelors, masters, and doctoral degrees. Within the Carnegie classification, UL Lafayette is designated as a Research University with high research activity. The University's academic programs are administered by the Colleges of: the Arts, Education, Engineering, General Studies, Liberal Arts, Nursing & Allied Health Professions, B. I. Moody III College of Business Administration, Sciences, and the Graduate School. The University is dedicated to achieving excellence in undergraduate and graduate education, in research, and in public service. For undergraduate education, this commitment implies a fundamental subscription to general education, rooted in the primacy of the traditional liberal arts and sciences as the core around which all curricula are developed. The graduate programs seek to develop scholars who will variously advance knowledge, cultivate aesthetic sensibility, and improve the material conditions of humankind. The University reaffirms its historic commitment to diversity and integration. Thus, through instruction, research, and service, the University promotes regional economic and cultural development, explores solutions to national and world issues, and advances its reputation among its peers.UL Lafayette is a national leader in computer science, environmental biology and nursing. Student-athletes - Louisiana's Ragin' <n Cajuns n> - compete in NCAA Division I, the highest level of collegiate competition. UL Lafayette is located in a region known for extraordinary food, music, hospitality and joie de vivre that are hallmarks of its distinctive Cajun and Creole cultures.The University of Louisiana at Lafayette is a vibrant member of a culturally sophisticated community that has the intimate feel of a small town. On campus, students can view major art exhibits at the Paul and Lulu Hilliard University Art Museum, watch musical and theatrical performances, catch big name acts in the 12,000-seat Cajundome and support their favorite Ragin' Cajun sports teams. There are plenty of off-campus entertainment offerings, too. Downtown Lafayette, which is within walking distance of campus, features live music, art galleries and restaurants. Festivals abound in the area throughout the year; Mardi Gras reigns supreme. <p2 UL-Lafayette p2> students embody the spirit of the region's unique Cajun and Creole heritage. That means they work hard and play hard. They value family and respect each other's religious beliefs. They embrace diversity and treat strangers like family. Their compassion for others inspires public service. The seamless blend of campus and community creates a <n synergy n> that sets UL Lafayette apart from other universities.
