<p2 University of California--Irvine p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1965. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 25,256, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 1,474 acres. It utilizes a quarter-based academic calendar. University of California--Irvine's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 39. Its in-state tuition and fees are $14,750 (2015-16); out-of-state tuition and fees are $39,458 (2015-16).

On the sunny campus of the <p2 University of California--Irvine p2> , students don't have far to go to decompress after class. The Pacific Ocean is a quick 5-mile trip away, attracting surfers, sailors and sunbathers alike. Seated in Orange County, the bustling campus is home to more than 500 student organizations, including nearly 50 fraternities and sororities. The <p2 UC—Irvine p2> Anteaters compete at the Division I level in the Big West Conference, cheered on by non-traditional <n mascot n> Peter the Anteater and a group of student fans called Eater Nation. While UC Irvine is known as a commuter school, university officials have tried to combat that status by offering more on-campus residence options. Freshmen are not required to live on campus, but more than three-fourths of first-year students choose to do so. Getting around UC Irvine is easy with the school's ZotWheels, a fleet of blue and gold bicycles that students <n can n> pick up and ride to four campus locations. Commuters looking to be more energy efficient can carpool to campus with other students through the university's Zimride Rideshare Community.

The research institution specializes in <n areas n> such as cancer and neuroscience studies in conjunction with the highly ranked UC Irvine Medical Center. Graduate programs are highly regarded at UC Irvine, too, with speciality offerings at the Paul Merage School of Business and the Henry Samueli School of Engineering. The university has also earned accolades for its eco-friendly measures, promoting green initiatives through student groups like the Anteaters for Recycling and Conservation. Famous UC-Irvine alumni include former "Saturday Night Live" actor Jon Lovitz, Greg Louganis, four-time Olympic gold medality in diving, and author Alice Sebold, who wrote "The Lovely Bones."