<p2 University of Massachusetts--Dartmouth p2> is a public institution that was founded in 1895. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 7,295, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 710 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of Massachusetts--Dartmouth's ranking in the 2017 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 220. Its in-state tuition and fees are $12,588 (2015-16); out-of-state tuition and fees are $19,270 (2015-16).

Located about 60 miles south of Boston, the <p2 UMASSD p2> offers more than 50 fields of undergraduate study. Graduate students can choose from more than 35 master's degree programs, including those in the Charlton College of Business, the College of Engineering and the College of Nursing. The university, often called UMass Dartmouth, also offers a ranked fine arts program in its College of Visual and Performing Arts.

Outside the classroom, UMass Dartmouth students can get involved through more than 100 campus clubs, about 10 Greek organizations and student government. Students can also explore campus media by checking out The Torch newspaper and the WUMD educational radio station. Student athletes can play at the recreational level or join the UMass Dartmouth Corsairs varsity teams, which mainly compete in the NCAA Division III Little East Conference. Notable University of Massachusetts—Dartmouth alumni include <n screenwriter n> and director Brian Helgeland, who won an Academy Award for the "L.A. Confidential" screenplay.

UMass Dartmouth distinguishes itself as a vibrant public university actively engaged in personalized teaching, innovative research and serving as an intellectual catalyst for social and cultural development. Established in 1895, UMass Dartmouth has developed into a renowned textile, technological and art institution, and offers a wide and balanced array of programs that effectively combine a liberal arts education with real world applications. <p2 UMass-Dartmouth p2> is ranked by U.S. News & World Report as the top public regional university in New England, is a Carnegie Community Engaged University and places in the top tier nationally on the President's National Community Service Honor Roll. Known for personalized teaching and its growing research program, UMass Dartmouth is home to the School of Marine Sciences and Technology, the College of Visual and Performing Arts based in historic New <n Bedford n>, and UMass School of Law, the Commonwealth's only public law school.
